.TH XDC-SETUP 1 "February 2026" "XDC CLI 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xdc-setup \- XDC Node Setup and Initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdc init
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B xdc init
.RI [ \-\-quick ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The setup command provides an interactive wizard for configuring and deploying
an XDC Network node. It handles system requirement checks, dependency
installation, network configuration, and initial node setup.
.PP
The setup process includes:
.IP \(bu 4
System requirement validation (CPU, memory, disk)
.IP \(bu 4
Docker and Docker Compose installation
.IP \(bu 4
Node configuration (network, client type, ports)
.IP \(bu 4
Firewall configuration
.IP \(bu 4
Monitoring and alerting setup
.IP \(bu 4
Service registration (systemd or Docker)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-quick
Run minimal setup with default settings. Skips interactive prompts and uses
sensible defaults for all configuration options.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show help message and exit.
.SH SETUP PROCESS
.SS 1. System Requirements Check
The wizard verifies:
.IP \(bu 4
Operating system compatibility (Linux, macOS)
.IP \(bu 4
Minimum 4 CPU cores (8+ recommended for masternodes)
.IP \(bu 4
Minimum 16GB RAM (32GB+ recommended)
.IP \(bu 4
Minimum 500GB free disk space (SSD strongly recommended)
.IP \(bu 4
Network connectivity
.SS 2. Client Selection
Choose from available XDC clients:
.IP \(bu 4
.B stable
- XDC Stable (v2.6.8) - Official Docker image, most stable
.IP \(bu 4
.B geth-pr5
- XDC Geth PR5 - Latest geth with XDPoS v2 consensus
.IP \(bu 4
.B erigon
- Erigon-XDC - High-performance multi-client implementation
.SS 3. Network Selection
.IP \(bu 4
.B mainnet
- XDC Main Network (production)
.IP \(bu 4
.B testnet/apothem
- XDC Test Network
.IP \(bu 4
.B devnet
- Development network
.SS 4. Configuration Files
The following configuration files are created:
.IP \(bu 4
.I /opt/xdc-node/config.toml
- Main node configuration
.IP \(bu 4
.I /opt/xdc-node/<network>/.xdc-node/.env
- Environment variables
.IP \(bu 4
.I /opt/xdc-node/<network>/.xdc-node/client.conf
- Client-specific settings
.SS 5. Monitoring Setup
Optional monitoring components:
.IP \(bu 4
Prometheus metrics collection
.IP \(bu 4
Grafana dashboards
.IP \(bu 4
SkyNet network monitoring
.IP \(bu 4
Telegram/email alerting
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B xdc init
Run full interactive setup wizard.
.TP
.B xdc init \-\-quick
Run quick setup with default settings.
.SH FILES CREATED
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/config.toml
Main configuration file with node settings.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/docker/docker-compose.yml
Docker Compose configuration for container management.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/<network>/.xdc-node/
State directory containing node-specific configuration.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/<network>/xdcchain/
Blockchain data directory.
.SH POST-SETUP
After successful setup:
.IP 1 4
Start the node with:
.B xdc start
.IP 2 4
Check status with:
.B xdc status
.IP 3 4
View logs with:
.B xdc logs
.IP 4 4
For masternode setup:
.B xdc masternode setup
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
.TP
.B Setup fails with "Docker not found"
The script will attempt to install Docker. If it fails, install Docker manually
following the official Docker documentation for your OS.
.TP
.B Port conflicts detected
The setup will attempt to find free ports automatically. To use specific ports,
edit the .env file after setup.
.TP
.B Insufficient disk space
Ensure at least 500GB free space on an SSD. For archive nodes, 1TB+ is
recommended.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdc (1),
.BR xdc-status (1),
.BR xdc-start (1),
.BR docker-compose (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anil Chinchawale <anil24593@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/AnilChinchawale/xdc-node-setup/issues
