.TH XDC-STATUS 1 "February 2026" "XDC CLI 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xdc-status \- XDC Node Status Overview
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdc status
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B xdc info
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The status command provides a comprehensive overview of the XDC node state,
including synchronization progress, peer connections, system resources, and
setup completion status. It serves as the primary monitoring interface for
node operators.
.PP
The command displays:
.IP \(bu 4
Client information and version
.IP \(bu 4
Current block height and sync percentage
.IP \(bu 4
Connected peer count
.IP \(bu 4
System resource usage (CPU, RAM, Disk)
.IP \(bu 4
Network and chain information
.IP \(bu 4
Setup completion checklist
.SS Multi-Client Mode
When both Geth and Erigon clients are running simultaneously, the status
displays information for both clients in a comparative format, showing:
.IP \(bu 4
Individual block heights
.IP \(bu 4
Sync status for each client
.IP \(bu 4
Peer counts per client
.IP \(bu 4
RPC endpoints for both clients
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-watch, \-w
Auto-refresh status display every 5 seconds. Press Ctrl+C to exit.
.TP
.B \-\-interval\ N
Set custom refresh interval in seconds (default: 5, used with \-\-watch).
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output status in JSON format for programmatic processing.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show help message and exit.
.SH OUTPUT COLUMNS
.TP
.B Client
The XDC client type (XDC Stable, XDC Geth PR5, or Erigon-XDC).
.TP
.B Block
Current block height synced by the node.
.TP
.B Peers
Number of connected P2P peers (target: 25+).
.TP
.B Sync%
Synchronization percentage relative to the network head.
.TP
.B CPU
Current CPU usage percentage.
.TP
.B RAM
Current memory usage percentage.
.TP
.B Disk
Blockchain data disk usage percentage.
.TP
.B Status
Node status indicator (Online, Syncing, Low Peers, or Offline).
.SH SETUP COMPLETION CHECKLIST
The status display includes a checklist showing:
.IP \(bu 4
Node installed
.IP \(bu 4
Node running
.IP \(bu 4
Node synced (>99%)
.IP \(bu 4
Peers connected (4+)
.IP \(bu 4
Firewall configured
.IP \(bu 4
SkyNet registered
.IP \(bu 4
Monitoring enabled
.PP
A progress bar shows overall completion percentage.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B xdc status
Display current node status once.
.TP
.B xdc status \-\-watch
Continuously monitor status with 5-second refresh.
.TP
.B xdc status \-\-watch \-\-interval 10
Monitor with 10-second refresh interval.
.TP
.B xdc status \-\-json
Output status as JSON for scripts and monitoring tools.
.SH JSON OUTPUT FORMAT
When using \-\-json, the output includes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "client": "stable|geth-pr5|erigon",
  "clientVersion": "XDC/v2.6.8/...",
  "nodeName": "node-id",
  "network": "mainnet|testnet|devnet",
  "networkId": "50|51|89",
  "blockHeight": 12345678,
  "syncPercent": 99.8,
  "syncStatus": "synced|syncing",
  "peers": 25,
  "cpu": 15,
  "ram": 45,
  "disk": 60,
  "containerStatus": "running",
  "rpcUrl": "http://127.0.0.1:8545",
  "status": "online",
  "timestamp": "2026-02-15T10:30:00Z"
}
.fi
.RE
.SH MULTI-CLIENT JSON
When running both Geth and Erigon:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
  "multiClient": true,
  "geth": { ... },
  "erigon": { ... },
  "cpu": 20,
  "ram": 50,
  "disk": 65,
  "timestamp": "2026-02-15T10:30:00Z"
}
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MAINNET_RPC_URL
URL for mainnet RPC endpoint used to calculate sync percentage.
Default: https://erpc.xinfin.network
.TP
.B XDC_RPC_URL
Override the local RPC endpoint URL.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdc (1),
.BR xdc-health (1),
.BR xdc-monitor (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anil Chinchawale <anil24593@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/AnilChinchawale/xdc-node-setup/issues
