.TH XDC-SECURITY 1 "February 2026" "XDC CLI 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xdc-security \- XDC Node Security Audit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdc security
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The security command performs a comprehensive audit of the XDC node security
configuration. By default, it operates in read-only mode and provides
recommendations without making any changes. Use the \-\-fix option to
automatically apply recommended fixes.
.PP
Security is critical for XDC nodes, especially masternodes that participate
in consensus and hold significant stake. This command helps ensure your node
follows security best practices.
.SH SECURITY CHECKS
The audit verifies the following security aspects:
.SS SSH Configuration
.TP
.B Key-Only Authentication
Verifies PasswordAuthentication is disabled in /etc/ssh/sshd_config.
.TP
.B Non-Standard Port
Checks if SSH is running on a port other than 22.
.TP
.B Root Login Restricted
Verifies PermitRootLogin is set to 'no' or 'prohibit-password'.
.SS Network Security
.TP
.B Firewall Enabled
Checks if UFW or iptables firewall is active.
.TP
.B RPC Not Exposed
Verifies RPC endpoint (port 8545) is not exposed to 0.0.0.0.
.TP
.B WebSocket Not Exposed
Verifies WebSocket endpoint (port 8546) is not exposed to 0.0.0.0.
.SS System Security
.TP
.B Fail2ban Active
Checks if fail2ban intrusion prevention is running.
.TP
.B Automatic Updates
Verifies unattended-upgrades is configured for security updates.
.TP
.B File Permissions
Checks sensitive file permissions (keystore, configs).
.SS Container Security
.TP
.B Docker Socket Protection
Verifies Docker socket is not unnecessarily exposed.
.TP
.B Container Privileges
Checks for privileged container usage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-audit\-only
Check only, don't apply changes (default behavior).
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Apply recommended security fixes. Requires confirmation for each fix.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output audit results in JSON format.
.TP
.B \-\-help, \-h
Show help message and exit.
.SH SECURITY SCORE
The audit provides a security score from 0-100 based on passed checks:
.TP
.B 80-100 (Green)
Good security posture. Minor improvements possible.
.TP
.B 60-79 (Yellow)
Moderate security. Several recommendations should be addressed.
.TP
.B 0-59 (Red)
Poor security. Immediate attention required.
.SH FIX OPERATIONS
When using \-\-fix, the following operations may be performed:
.SS SSH Hardening
.IP \(bu 4
Set PasswordAuthentication no
.IP \(bu 4
Change default SSH port
.IP \(bu 4
Disable root login
.IP \(bu 4
Restart sshd service
.SS Firewall Configuration
.IP \(bu 4
Enable UFW firewall
.IP \(bu 4
Allow necessary ports (30303/tcp, 30303/udp for P2P)
.IP \(bu 4
Block unnecessary ports
.SS Service Installation
.IP \(bu 4
Install and configure fail2ban
.IP \(bu 4
Enable unattended-upgrades
.IP \(bu 4
Configure automatic security updates
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B xdc security
Run security audit in read-only mode (default).
.TP
.B xdc security \-\-fix
Run audit and apply recommended fixes interactively.
.TP
.B xdc security \-\-json
Output audit results as JSON for monitoring systems.
.SH RECOMMENDATIONS
Common security recommendations:
.SS For All Nodes
.IP \(bu 4
Use SSH key authentication only
.IP \(bu 4
Change default SSH port
.IP \(bu 4
Enable firewall with minimal open ports
.IP \(bu 4
Keep system updated with security patches
.IP \(bu 4
Use strong, unique passwords for any local accounts
.SS For Masternodes
.IP \(bu 4
Use hardware security modules (HSM) for key storage when possible
.IP \(bu 4
Enable all security checks
.IP \(bu 4
Regular security audits (weekly recommended)
.IP \(bu 4
Monitor for unusual activity
.IP \(bu 4
Use dedicated server/VPS (no shared hosting)
.SH FILES CHECKED
.TP
.I /etc/ssh/sshd_config
SSH daemon configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/ufw/ufw.conf
UFW firewall configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/fail2ban/jail.conf
Fail2ban configuration.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/<network>/keystore/
Node keystore directory.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/docker/docker-compose.yml
Docker Compose for RPC binding configuration.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Audit passed with score >= 80 or all fixes applied successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Audit found issues (score < 80) or fix operation failed.
.TP
.B 2
Insufficient permissions (requires root for some checks).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdc (1),
.BR sshd_config (5),
.BR ufw (8),
.BR fail2ban (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anil Chinchawale <anil24593@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
https://github.com/AnilChinchawale/xdc-node-setup/issues
.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
The \-\-fix option makes system changes. Always:
.IP 1 4
Review changes before applying
.IP 2 4
Have a backup or snapshot available
.IP 3 4
Test SSH access in a new session before closing current session
.IP 4 4
Verify node functionality after applying fixes
.PP
The security command cannot protect against all threats. Follow the complete
XDC security guide at:
https://github.com/AnilChinchawale/xdc-node-setup/blob/main/SECURITY.md
