.TH XDC 1 "February 2026" "XDC CLI 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xdc \- XDC Network Node Management CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdc
.RI [ global-options ]\ <command>\ [ options ]\ [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xdc
is an enterprise-grade command-line interface for managing XDC Network nodes.
It provides comprehensive tools for node setup, monitoring, maintenance, and
participation in the XDC Network consensus.
.PP
The XDC Network is a hybrid blockchain platform combining the power of public
and private blockchains with delegated proof-of-stake (XDPoS) consensus.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output results in JSON format for programmatic consumption.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet, \-q
Suppress non-essential output.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose, \-v
Show detailed output and debug information.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-rpc\ URL
Override the default RPC endpoint URL.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS XDC-Specific Commands
.TP
.B masternode
Setup and manage masternode operations including stake checking, keystore
management, and candidate registration.
.TP
.B rewards
Masternode rewards analytics including history tracking, APY calculation,
and data export capabilities.
.TP
.B cluster
Multi-node cluster management with failover support and health monitoring.
.TP
.B stake
Stake management including delegations, auto-compound configuration, and
tax reporting.
.TP
.B peers
Optimize peer connections with latency ranking and NAT detection.
.TP
.B snapshot
Manage chain snapshots for faster syncing - download, create, or verify
snapshots.
.TP
.B monitor
XDC-specific monitoring including epoch tracking, rewards monitoring, and
fork detection.
.TP
.B sync
Sync optimization with status tracking, ETA calculation, and pruning
recommendations.
.TP
.B rpc\-secure
RPC security hardening with method filtering and rate limiting.
.TP
.B network
Network intelligence including peer mapping and fork readiness analysis.
.TP
.B consensus
XDPoS v2 consensus monitoring for epochs, rounds, votes, and penalties.
.TP
.B network\-stats
Network-wide statistics and validator rankings.
.TP
.B governance
Governance participation including proposal viewing, voting, and history.
.SS Client Management
.TP
.B client
Display information about the currently running XDC client.
.TP
.B start\ \-\-client\ CLIENT
Start the node with a specific client (stable, geth-pr5, or erigon).
.SS General Commands
.TP
.B init
Interactive setup wizard for initial node configuration.
.TP
.B status
Show quick node status overview with setup progress.
.TP
.B health
Run comprehensive health checks on the node.
.TP
.B security
Run security audit (advisory only, use \-\-fix to apply).
.TP
.B update
Update node Docker image and restart services.
.TP
.B backup
Backup chaindata and configuration to archive.
.TP
.B restore
Restore node data from backup archive.
.TP
.B logs
View and tail node logs with filtering options.
.TP
.B restart
Graceful node restart with optional force mode.
.TP
.B stop
Stop all XDC containers and services.
.TP
.B start
Start the XDC node with auto-detection of ports.
.TP
.B addpeers
Add peers from bootnodes.list manually.
.TP
.B attach
Attach to XDC JavaScript console (IPC or RPC).
.TP
.B config
View and edit node configuration.
.TP
.B notify
Test notifications or send custom alerts.
.TP
.B dashboard
Start web-based monitoring dashboard.
.TP
.B version
Show CLI, client, and version information.
.TP
.B help\ [command]
Show help message or detailed help for specific command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Initialize a new node:
.RS
.B xdc init
.RE
.PP
Check node status:
.RS
.B xdc status
.RE
.PP
Monitor status in real-time:
.RS
.B xdc status \-\-watch
.RE
.PP
Start with specific client:
.RS
.B xdc start \-\-client erigon
.RE
.PP
Check for updates:
.RS
.B xdc update \-\-check
.RE
.PP
Enable auto-updates:
.RS
.B xdc update \-\-auto
.RE
.PP
Get help for specific command:
.RS
.B xdc help start
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/config.toml
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I /opt/xdc-node/VERSION
Current installed version.
.TP
.I /var/log/xdc-node.log
Default log file location.
.TP
.I /etc/xdc-node/bootnodes.conf
User-editable bootnodes configuration.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDC_HOME
Base directory for XDC node installation (default: /opt/xdc-node).
.TP
.B XDC_DATA
Data directory for chaindata (default: /opt/xdc-node/mainnet/xdcchain).
.TP
.B XDC_NETWORK
Network to use (mainnet, testnet, devnet).
.TP
.B XDC_RPC_URL
Override RPC endpoint URL.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
General error or command failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdc-setup (1),
.BR xdc-status (1),
.BR xdc-security (1),
.BR docker (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Anil Chinchawale <anil24593@gmail.com>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/AnilChinchawale/xdc-node-setup/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 XDC Network Contributors. Licensed under the MIT License.
